Welcome back for another 5 minute movie recap.
Today, I'm going to give you an overview of
the 2019 Spanish social science fiction-horror
film called 'The Platform'.
The film was directed by Galder Gaztelu-Urrutia.
The story is set in a large 'Vertical Self-Management
Center' with a tower-like design.
Residents, who are rotated every 30 days between
the tower's numerous floors, are fed via a
platform that starts at the top floor and
progressively lowers down the levels, halting
for a certain length of time on each.
Because the inhabitants at the highest levels
get to consume as much as they like, the system
eventually leads to conflict, as each level
only gets the leftovers from the preceding
one.
There will be Spoilers ahead, so please proceed
with caution.
Goreng awakens in a concrete cell with the
number 48 written on it.
Trimagasi, his cellmate, says that they are
in a 'Vertical Self-Management Center,' also
known as 'The Pit,' which is a tower-style
facility where food is supplied by a platform
that moves from the top down, pausing for
a certain duration on each floor.
Others on lower levels can only consume what
those on higher levels leave, and if anybody
tries to keep any of the food, the cell is
heated or cooled to lethal temperatures.
Every month, people are transferred to a new
level at random.
Goreng chose a book of Don Quixote, while
Trimagasi chose a self-sharpening knife, since
each tenant is permitted to bring in one item.
Trimagasi claims that when he and his old
cellmate were sent to level 132, they cannibalised
a prisoner who had fallen down the shaft.
Miharu, a wounded woman, rides down the platform
one day.
Trimagasi adds that every month, she descends
the hole in pursuit of her child.
Goreng volunteered to serve six months at
the institution in return for a diploma, while
Trimagasi reveals that he is serving a year
in prison for manslaughter.
The two become friends throughout the first
month, but Goreng wakes up bound to his bed
on the day of the room shuffle.
They've been transferred to level 171, where
when the platform comes, it'll be devoid of
food.
Trimagasi says that he intends to cut portions
of Goreng's flesh to support them both, and
that Goreng may survive if he is complicit.
Trimagasi becomes weaker on the seventh day
and begins severing Goreng's leg, but she
is assaulted by Miharu as she descends the
platform.
Trimagasi is killed by Goreng after she frees
him.
Trimagasi's flesh is hacked out by Miharu,
who feeds some to Goreng and eats some herself.
She nurses Goreng, but when he inquires about
her kid, she walks off the platform.
Goreng is tormented by Trimagasi the night
before the shuffle, who reveals that they
are now one and the same and that Trimagasi
would never leave him.
Goreng awakens on level 33 with a woman named
Imoguiri and her dog, Rameses the 2nd, in
the third month.
Goreng knows her as the officer from the Administration
who interrogated him before incarcerating
him.
When she was diagnosed with terminal cancer,
she claims she was ignorant of the appalling
conditions and offered to help.
Imoguiri limits her food and tries to persuade
the guys on level 34 to do the same, but they
are dismissive.
Goreng threatens to poo on the meal if they
do not comply after two weeks, and it succeeds.
The two start arguing over persuasive techniques.
When Miharu arrives injured one day, Goreng
and Imoguiri tend to her.
Goreng informs Imoguiri about Miharu's quest
for her kid, but Imoguiri informs Goreng that
minors under the age of 16 are not permitted
to visit the facility, and Miharu entered
alone.
She also claims to be aware that there are
a total of 200 levels.
The next month, Goreng awakens on level 202
to discover Imoguiri had hung herself.
Goreng, plagued by images of Trimagasi and
Imoguiri, consumes her flesh to stay alive,
hallucinating Trimagasi telling him to do
so.
Goreng gets promoted to level 6 at the start
of the fifth month.
Baharat, his new cellmate, tries unsuccessfully
to escape by climbing to the top floor.
Goreng encourages Baharat to ride the platform
down with him, dividing the food so that everyone
gets a part, estimating that there are 250
levels.
They resolve to guard the food until they
reach level 50, at which point they will begin
to distribute it.
One of the inmates, the wise Sr. Brambang,
persuades the others to send a symbolic message
to the government by leaving one dish unattended
(a panna cotta).
They dole out pieces to the inmates as they
descend deeper, attacking any who refuse to
participate.
They come see Miharu battling two other convicts
on the way and attempt to save her, but she
is murdered and they are seriously damaged.
Goreng and Baharat keep down until they reach
level 333, where the platform comes to a halt.
Goreng discovers a kid hiding beneath the
bed, Miharu's daughter.
He steps off the platform, cautiously followed
by Baharat, only for the platform to descend,
leaving them behind.
They give the girl the untouched panna cotta
they had preserved as a 'message' for the
Administrators at the top, despite Baharat's
reluctance.
Goreng loses consciousness and has a dream
in which Baharat tells him that 'the girl
is the message.'
Goreng discovers Baharat dead the next day,
having bled out from his injuries.
When the platform comes, Goreng takes the
youngster with him.
They make their way to the bottom of the hole,
where he sees Trimagasi again, who assures
him that 'the message requires no bearer.'
Goreng exits the platform and walks away from
Trimagasi, both turning to watch the girl
rise to the platform's top.
If you like this movie, click the link in
the description below to watch it today.
I hope you have enjoyed this video.
Hit the like button and subscribe for more
videos.
Have a great day ahead.